# Course-Enrollment-using-RMI
In this process, I have build course enrollment system in a distributed application by using Java Remote Method Invocation (RMI). For this process totally I have used four classes namely RMIInterface, Server, Servant and Client classes and three text files such as Course Details, Timings & Offered text files.  In RMI interface I have declared all the functions that are used or useful at the client side. Examples of such functions are ListOfCourses, FullCourseDetails, setCapacityCount, getCapacityCount etc.  In Servant class I have defined and implemented all the functions that are declared in the RMI interface. Apart from those functions I have defined its (Servant) own functions at the Servant side.
The own functions at the server side are like courseDetails, Timings , Offered etc. These functions will help to read the data from the above specified three text files and allocate the data to the calling objects. In Server class I have declared four objects and stored the content of corresponding line from the text files in each object. Apart from this I have declared binded these four objects to the registry server, so that the client can locate the server adderss.
At the client side, it can read the interface methods data by using lookup of the binded registry objects. First it will read the course details that are available from the objects. Apart from this it have three options to choose in the current session i.e ‘Enrollment’, ‘Full Course Details’ & ‘Dropping’ the enrolled course. In Enrollment he can choose the ‘n’ number of Courses that are available. It will show the wrong message if you have opted for wrong course or else it will show that you have enrolled for a particular course. And it will call update function to update the capacity details and status in the offered text file. In ‘Full Course Details’ option it will display all the details about the courses like course_no,  title ,description, time ,day , faculty, section and capacity etc. In ‘drop ’ option it will show the list of enrolled courses and you can choose one among them to drop the course. This will also call the update details function to update the capacity count at the servant side in the offered text file.

Execution Steps:
1.	Firstly, you need to open three command prompts if executing in same system or three separate windows if it is in different systems.
2.	Then need to compile both the server and client classes.
3.	After compiling successfully, by using rmic command, run rmic Servant class. This enables to create stub and skeleton classes. Then run ‘rmiregistry’ command to run the rmiregistry server. 
4.	Run the server class in one window and client class in another window.
5.	Client class is interactive one you provide your user details from the standard keyboard.
